All right.
So now at this point, we went through the basic question answer in this lecture, we're going to go
through the DevOps interview question answer for moderate level.
So one difference you would see from basic to moderate to advanced is not just for DevOps, for any
other cloud interview or any interview.
Basic questions deal with the definition so they will.
Most of the questions will be like, what is this?
What does what?
What is the command for this right?
Or What are the benefits?
As you go to moderate and advanced, there will be more scenario based questions like How would you
do this?
Or like, how would you convert from this to this?
Or How would you migrate applications from on prem to cloud, etc.?
So moderate and advanced question kind of tests that you actually have hands on experience and not just
theoretical experience.
All right.
With that being said, let's go through the moderate questions.
I mentioned some challenges of DevOps.
How would you solve them?
Can you explain me the automated flow of provisioning resources?
Do you recommend cloud formation or TerraForm?
Why?
How can you perform automated testing in DevOps?
What is Jenkins?
Urgent.
Give me some examples of different agents.
How do you store credentials in Jenkins securely?
What are some ways to trigger a Jenkins job?
I want to trigger my Jenkins job as soon as I check in my code in GitHub.
How can you achieve that?
How will you pass values from one Jenkins job to another?
Tell me some examples of Jenkins environment variables.
What is Jenkins Post section?
In which cases should I use it?
What is the difference between Jenkins file and cloud formation or TerraForm?
Explain the workflow to provision a Kubernetes cluster.
Explain.
How will you implement a microservice to Kubernetes cluster using a pipeline?
What is the easiest way to convert a Jenkins scripted job to pipeline job?
What is the difference between Jenkins DSL and pipeline?
Can you tell me the components of a Jenkins file?
How will you troubleshoot a failed Jenkins job?
How do you define and pass parameters from one Jenkins job to another?
How to create a backup copy of the files for your Jenkins.
How will you implement manual approval in a Jenkins pipeline?
What is gitops?
What are the advantages of Gitops?
All right.
Like I said before, please pause the video, go through the questions and think of the answers.
Mark down the questions that you are not able to answer or you are not satisfied with your answer.
Then on pause, then go through the notes on the answers.
All right.
Question number one mentioned some challenges of DevOps.
How would you solve them?
We have a separate lecture for this, so make sure you study that.
Generally, DevOps has a two challenges.
One is the technical side, where the landscape changes so rapidly.
Every month, new DevOps tool comes up.
It is very difficult to keep up.
And the cultural side is since now the developer and operation is the same person.
And if some person was a developer before and now he or she is forced to do support as well, they might
not like this.
Also check out the video for how you are going to solve them.
So whenever you get an interview question about challenges, it's very important that you mention how
can you solve those challenges?
Next question can you explain me?
The automated flow of provisioning is resources very important not just for interviews as well as your
real world projects.
So make sure you check out the lecture of how to implement cloud formation with Jenkins and understand
the flow.
Do you recommend cloud formation or TerraForm?
Why?
These are the questions where there are no definite answer because there are pros and cons of both.
So what the interviewer is looking for is that you have given some thought or you have actually used
one or the other.
So you could say like cloud formation is a is native infrastructures code.
So it provides supports if anything breaks.
Cloud formation is quite stable.
If you have a cloud formation from a couple years back, it will still run.
It's backward compatible and it is deeply integrated with other tools.
For example, a service catalog, if you want to standardize some templates, very easy to do that with
cloud formation.
TerraForm, on the other hand, is cloud agnostic.
So you can run the same TerraForm script in multiple clouds with minimal changes.
But then the problem is TerraForm is not backward compatible.
This is one of the thing about TerraForm with new version changes, TerraForm Change how it should be
coded, which is kind of painful.
So if you have a terraform from a couple of years back and you want to run it now, chances are it's
not going to run.
How can you perform automated testing in DevOps?
So I have a separate video on that, so make sure to check it out.
What?
Is Jenkins urgent.
Give me some examples of different agents.
So make sure you study different Jenkins file components.
Right.
So Agent is one of the components such as note etc..
So you can give some examples.
Some of the different Jenkins agents could be just a regular easy to load or docker container image,
etc..
How do you store credentials in Jenkins?
Securely?
I have a separate lecture.
Jenkins has a separate credential section, so make sure you go through that video.
What are some ways to trigger a Jenkins job?
So the most popular way is are periodic checking and GitHub webhook and then expect some follow up questions
or pros and cons of either.
Watch that lecture.
I want to trigger my Jenkins job as soon as I check in my code in GitHub.
How can you achieve that?
So basically, interviewer wants to know about GitHub web hooks.
So instead of you pulling the repository using webhook, anytime something changes in the repository,
GitHub can send it to the Jenkins job and your job will get submitted.
And that's how most of the Real World Project works.
Next question How will you pass values from one Jenkins job to another?
It's a very practical question, so make sure you watch that lecture.
This is also explained in detail in the Kubernetes workflow, where one job creates the new Docker container
image, tags it with a unique tag, and then pass those tags to the next job, which updates the manifest
file for the Kubernetes.
Next question.
Tell me some examples of Jenkins and environment variables.
So you we use the environment variables throughout course.
Some of the popular ones are build number.
So every time you submit a Jenkins job, it gets a unique build number.
So the environment variable for that is build, underscore, number, build, underscore, ID, build,
underscore, attack, build, underscore, URL, etc. and even jenkins underscore URL.
So help some of these examples handy.
What is Jenkins post section?
In which case should I use it?
So check out the lecture for that.
So Jenkins post can be for the whole Jenkins job or a particular section.
So study up on those.
What is the difference between Jenkins file and cloud formation or TerraForm?
So this is a good question.
So basically interviewer wants to know if you have the high level understanding of different infrastructure
as codes as well as pipeline as code.
So Jenkins file codifies what the Jenkins job needs to do and cloud formation or TerraForm codifies
provisioning infrastructure in the cloud.
You can use cloud formation or terraform inside Jenkins file, but the opposite is not true.
You could give an example that if you want to provision, let's say Amazon EC2 API, Gateway Lambda,
you can put everything in a cloud formation or TerraForm template and you can put the command to run
those templates inside the Jenkins file and use the Jenkins file in a Jenkins job.
And then if the interviewer wants to know what is the difference between cloud formation and TerraForm,
I'll recover that.
So check that question out.
Explain the workflow to provisioning Kubernetes cluster.
Super important right now.
Kubernetes is super hot, so make sure you go through the Kubernetes Jenkins workflow.
When?
How will you implement a microservice to Kubernetes cluster using a pipeline?
So this question obviously requires some Kubernetes knowledge.
The interviewer is assuming that you know how to create a microservice in the Kubernetes world, and
then specifically for the DevOps app that the interviewer is expecting that you know how to deploy that
microservice to Kubernetes.
So we have been through this in detail using the Kubernetes Gitops chapter.
So study that if the interviewer does not mention Kubernetes and says, how will you implement a microservice
to use using a pipeline?
So remember that microservice can run on easy too.
It can run on lambda.
So if you are not confident with Kubernetes and the interviewer kind of keeps it open, then you could
say, Yeah, I will provision AC too.
And using Ansible I will deploy my software and based on different microservice I can have different
order, scaling group, etc..
So next question.
What is the easiest way to convert a Jenkins script job to pipeline job?
So pipeline job is newer.
It it has advantages like you can restart from any stage, etc..
I have a separate lecture on this to convert the Jenkins files from the scripted job to pipeline job.
And if you want to record it, it's very tedious.
Instead, you should use the script section.
So check out the example I have given a next question.
What is the difference between Jenkins DSL and Pipeline?
I have separate lecture on that.
Check that out.
Can you tell me components of a Jenkins file so you could see like this part?
This one is important because you could be asked in a way that what is the agent?
What is a node, what is the post section or interviewer can ask you, can you tell me components of
a Jenkins file and make sure you understand the structure?
So go through those lectures, name the structures and go over the important components.
Next question How will you troubleshoot a failed Jenkins job?
So here you have to say that I will go to the console.
Output of the job console output will have the error message.
And ideally my job should be a pipeline job divided into different stages.
And depending on the nature of the workflow, I can restart from that particular stage or I can restart
from the top.
And sometimes the problem could be outside of the Jenkins job.
So let's say I submitted a cloud formation and the cloud formation failed.
And the Jenkins job console is going to give us some error message that that step failed.
But for deeper investigation, I need to go to a console and the cloud formation and check out the cloud
formation output and the related resources in OS to troubleshoot.
But the first starting point will always be the console output of Jenkins.
Next question How do you define and pass parameters from one Jenkins job to another?
Very similar to how you pass values from one Jenkins job to another.
Check out the Kubernetes workflow video or I have a separate lecture on this on the commonly used Jenkins
example as well.
So check it out.
Next question how to create a backup copy of the files for your Jenkins.
So when you want to think of backups of Jenkins, so it is basically the build jobs that you have created,
the configuration, the node configurations, build, history, etc..
So Jenkins at the end of the day runs on some kind of infrastructure.
So if you are running Jenkins on EC2, so it's basically being backed up on the EBS of the EC2 and all
this information.
The build history configuration is saved in the folder called Jenkins Underscore Home.
So these Jenkins underscore home will point to a actual directory.
So I showed this when you are going to Jenkins console in an easy to.
It will be saved in a particular directory.
If you run Jenkins in local, it will be saved in a local folder, etc. So at the end of the day, you
need to take backup of that folder so you could run like a cron job which goes and periodically backs
up that folder.
On a higher level, you can even back up the EBS where the Jenkins is installed and running using it
as backup tools like NWS backup.
Or you could use a backup plugin in Jenkins.
Personally, I like the answers that where you go and take a backup using a crunch job or use that as
backup to backup the abs.
And then if the virtual machine crashes, you can use that backup to create new easy tools.
Next question How will you implement manual approval in the Jenkins pipeline?
And you do that using the input command in Jenkins file.
So I have a separate lecture on that.
So check it out.
Last question.
What is Gitops?
What are the advantages of Gitops?
So now Gitops is coming more and more in the DevOps.
Again, I have a separate chapter on this.
If your job has anything to do with Kubernetes, you must study this right?
Because this is the newest way to deploy into Kubernetes.
The traditional way of deploying to Kubernetes, using Jenkins all the way or even using GitLab all
the way is getting kind of old and deprecated.
I assume with the next few years, Gitops will replace all continuous delivery or continuous deployment
part for Kubernetes.
All right, folks.
So those are the moderate answers.
So now in the next lecture, let's jump into the advanced question answer.